That's right, you big jerk.
Popp: Reflect it!
Maam [thought]: The mirror!
I almost forgot!
Sigma: W-Wait a moment...
Take the Mirror of Shahal.
You are worthy of wielding it.
[straining grunts]
Th-This weighs more
than Crocodine.
I can't even lift my arm.
How am I supposed
to fight like this?
Just wear it as armor instead.
Keep it hidden
under your tunic.
Popp: Seriously?
Will that work?
The Mirror of Shahal, it...
Will not break...
Not even a crack -
even after I'm gone.
I want you to keep it...
to carry it as your own,
so that it might see you
through to the end...
and s-serve in my place.
Sigma...
Sigma: I know it will
be of some assistance.
Please, take it with you.
Maam [thought]: Popp's
had it ever since...
Popp [thought]: Th-This has
been of a lot more than
just "some" assistance...
It's turned out to be the secret
ingredient for our victory.
Thank you - Sigma.
Dai [thought]: This is it.
This is the moment...
Dai [thought]: Everything's
riding on this next move.
If I don't pull this off,
right here and now,
we're never gonna get another
chance at beating Vearn!
My friends all put themselves
on the line to get me here.
I won't let them down.
So I have to give it
everything I've got...
I need all of my strength!
You've got this! Do it!
Avan... Strash!
True Vearn: D-Don't...
Don't you dare underestimate
me, foolish little boy!
Maam [thought]:
H-He can move?!
Hyunckel [thought]: But how?
He was frozen when
the spell hit him...
And it was a direct hit.
Crocodine [thought]:
Those flames...
No one could survive them.
Leona [thought]: An Overfiend.
True Vearn [thought]:
Ha! I withstood it!
Now, I only need to take
care of his Strash...
and then it's all over!
Strash... Cross!
True Vearn [thought]:
My... how?
This is impossible.
I should be able to withstand
a strike from any weapon.
Popp: Dai, h-he... He did it!
He actually...
beat the Demonic Guard
of Heaven and Earth!
Hyunckel [thought]:
That's not all.
The Dark King can never
use that stance again.
Leona [thought]: Even
if he can regrow that arm,
Draconic Aura works
the same as Dark Aura.
Any injury it causes
will take time to heal.
Crocodine [thought]: Yes!
Wounded as he is, Dai's
dealt Vearn a critical blow.
Now he's got the advantage.
Hym [thought]: Sigma,
wherever you are,
I hope you see this.
These Disciples of Avan,
the ones who we once
called our rivals...
are far stronger than
we could have imagined.
That was only the warm-up.
Stay focused, Dai.
The real fight starts now.
You haven't beaten me yet!
Dai!
I'm not letting go, Vearn.
No matter what!
[struggling grunts]
Even if it means that...
we're taking this
next one together.
Zapple!
Dai!
A-Are you... planning
to... fall with me?
W-Well...
I don't have the stamina
to use Giga Strash.
And even if...
you can't use the Demonic Guard
of Heaven and Earth anymore,
you aren't likely to just stand
there and let a spell hit you.
You could still counter...
But this way,
I'm one hundred percent
guaranteed to hit you.
Let's see who lasts longer!
You'll have to do
better than this!
C'mon... just one
m-more... t-time...
Zapple!
Now, it's like... The gods
are truly fighting.
That looks like
Dai's Zapple spell!
Flora: It could be.
Let's pray it's not another
attack from Dark Army.
[suffering roar]
Dai: Zapple!
Th-There's no use, Dai.
Why won't you cease
this futile resistance?
You can say that
all you want,
but I'm never giving up.
I can feel your pull on
me weakening as we speak.
If I'm slipping,
it's because
your sword has pierced
one of my three hearts...
Most impressive, except it's
still not enough to kill me!
Zapple!
[overwhelmed roar]
Dai: [pained cry]
Crocodine [thought]:
How many times is that?
Maam [thought]: No...
At... At this rate, it won't
just be Vearn who goes...
Leona [thought]:
Dai's not planning...
to make it out of this, is he?
Dai: Zapple!
[howling]
Hey, no!
True Vearn: [howling]
Popp [thought]: I...
I can't stop him.
I wish I could, but...
The only way to defeat Vearn
is for Dai to risk
his life like this!
"Only the Hero can defeat
the Dark King," remember?
Like Vearn said,
he's not beaten yet...
Even so, this is
definitely wearing him down.
Popp [thought]: All the
energy from that lighting...
It's going directly into his
body through the Sword of Dai.
That's worse than
a direct hit.
Even Vearn can't withstand
that much power for long.
I don't like it,
but I get it.
So all I'll say is this...
You'd better not give
out before Vearn does.
That's all, Dai.
Give him hell.
True Vearn: You have
me at a loss.
Do you truly not
feel any fear?
You must have some
doubt in using...
such a reckless tactic.
Don't deny it!
Not at all.
Actually... it'll be easier
to finish you off this way.
Maybe you can take
me down with you...
But if you do, at least I'll be
the only one who gets hurt.
Dai: My friends have all put
themselves on the line...
to make sure that I'd have
this one last chance...
If they were willing to do that
for me, then why shouldn't I...
be willing to do
the same for them?
True Vearn: How sentimental.
I presume this is the
so-called "bond of souls"
you mentioned earlier?
Yeah. That's what it is!
It isn't enough. Give up.
Wait... What?!
All of your efforts
will soon go to waste.
This bond of souls
you believe in...
The blood your
companions have spilled...
Their heroic acts
of sacrifice...
Before too long, you'll see
it was all an absolutely...
pointless endeavor.
Pointless?!
Indeed.
Now just stop these
useless attacks.
I can assure you...
It's for your own good.
W-What are you talking about?!
You're wrong...
There's no way
this was all pointless!
The only reason I've got
you pinned right now
is thanks to my friends.
You just... want me
to drop my guard!
True Vearn: You'd
have a point...
if it weren't for the fact...
that pinning me
down will do nothing
to stop what comes next.
Huh?!
Maam [thought]: What?!
Avan [thought]: This
rumbling... Could it be?
What's that sound?
Without the Dark
Force Reactor,
Vearn Palace has lost
its main power supply.
Now, with no means to
control its flight,
the gravity-defying
properties of the material
it's constructed of will
lift us higher and higher.
The surface world has
already drifted far, far away.
But, despite the
damage you've done...
it turns out, there's still
one part of the Palace
which I can control.
As it happens, it's also a part
which only I can control...
Observe.
Dai: The heart?
But the Dark Force Reactor...
I thought I...
True Vearn: Yes.
You destroyed it.
Only, I'm not talking
about the reactor.
I'm talking about...
what's beneath it.
No... What's going on?
What the heck is that thing?
True Vearn: Behold, Vearn
Palace's ultimate weapon.
The Pillar of Vearn!
True Vearn: Yes,
the Pillar of Vearn.
I've deployed others just
like it all over the world.
True Vearn: There are six
of these devices...
One to go with every
wing of Vearn Palace.
Each is capable of more
destruction than ten armies.
I've placed the
others to wipe out
key kingdoms across the globe.
True Vearn: All in all,
I've dropped five so far.
This is the last
pillar that remains.
What happens if I drop
it below us right now?
Below us?
True Vearn:
You know, don't you?
It will blow away
anything in its path.
Popp [thought]: Queen
Flora and the others...
they're right beneath us!
Don't let him! We've
got people down there!
No!
Stop it, now!
C'mon, Dai! Don't let him -
S-Stop!
Stop it!
No!
You can't!
[menacing chuckle]
Everybody... Queen Flora
and the others...
True Vearn: Tell me...
Did you recognize that, Dai?
Huh?
What I'm asking is...
did you notice anything
familiar about that glow?
Dai: Is that... no...
That's a... That's a....
Dai: A Black Core!
What?! Oh, not this again!
Hyunckel [thought]: That's
the infamous super-powered
explosive from the Underworld.
Crocodine [thought]:
The same contraption
the Dark King had
implanted in Hadlar's body?
Dai [thought]: The magic
bomb that took out Dad...
There's... There's
more than one?
A Black Core's
destructive power...
will increase
according to its size.
This one is over
ten times larger...
than the Core I put in Hadlar.
Do you realize...
what that means?
But the one inside Hadlar...
it blew away the
entire Field of Death.
Ten times that would
flatten Loroi Valley...
No, it could destroy
the whole Surface World...
Popp: And there are five
others just like it, too.
We'll never find them in time.
True Vearn: You'd already
know where they were,
if you had only understood
what you witnessed.
Allow me to jog your memory.
You humans called my attacks
on your kingdoms
indiscriminate,
but they were all by design.
In truth, I was dropping these
pillars where I needed them
to set the stage
for my endgame.
True Vearn: First was
Northwest Romos...
Next was Southern Orzam...
Then Valge Island...
Western Papnica...
Ringaia Kingdom...
And finally, here
in Northern Carl.
True Vearn: What
happens if you connect
all those points on a map?
Popp: It creates a hexagon.
[horrified breath]
These massive Black Cores
have been positioned...
to form the points of a hexagon
encompassing each continent...
Six pillars of fire
to scorch the surface.
The Magic Field they
create will increase their
destructive force to
the greatest magnitude...
Completely eradicating
the Surface World...
When the dust of your realm
settles, the Underworld...
shall ascend to
take its place.
True Vearn: The sun which
sets on the horizon before us,
will rise tomorrow and shine
upon my kingdom at last.
Look at it, Dai. Drink it in.
This is how our battle ends.
No...
N-Not yet...
Not if I can defeat you before
you make them explode...
It's not over!
That's where you're wrong.
Even if you defeat me,
it will not stop them.
You're lying!
It's true.
I had these made
with built-in timers.
In a few short minutes,
they detonate, and the
Surface World will vanish.
No...
That won't happen.
I'll finish you off
and then I'll...
I'll stop them all myself!
True Vearn: How exactly will
you be in six places at once?
True Vearn: Whether it's on the
chessboard or the battlefield,
a true victor must
move their pieces
without revealing
their intentions...
until the final move, that is.
If anyone who
possessed real strength
had remained down there,
There might be a
chance for them...
to discover the secret
of the Pillars,
and even remove the Cores...
And that's the reason...
I issued such an
absurd challenge.
It's why I chose this
specific location
as the arena for our combat.
Exactly as I predicted,
you gathered all of your forces
and charged into my trap.
And here, we have the result.
The mighty Disciples of Avan -
and their leader
himself - have fallen.
They're paralyzed.
There's nothing you or the
Mage can do without them...
True Vearn: Like
I said, Dai. Give up.
Because it is over.
Surely you can
see that by now.
Surely you understand how
pointless it is to fight...
any further.
No! You're wrong.
I don't... I don't
accept that!
It can't be pointless.
It can't be!
If we... If we all
came this far just to...
Just to call it quits...
Then what now?
Will you strike me down?
Either way, I win.
True Vearn: If you
continue your attack,
you may have the power to
beat me, but not the time.
It will take more than a
few minutes to finish me off,
I'll make sure of that.
Still, destroying me
after the Surface World's
been annihilated might slake
your thirst for vengeance.
Let me ask,
just to be certain.
Answer this honestly:
When you began this fight,
was your objective to
bring about my demise?
Dai: No...
The reason...
I started this fight...
is because I...
I wanted to protect
the... Surface World.
To help.
Yes.
That which you seek to
protect... will soon be gone.
True Vearn: It will
all be gone.
No, Dai...
Dai [thought]: What is this?
What's wrong with me?
Come on. Forget what he says.
The fight isn't over yet!
N-No... No matter what,
I can't let him do this.
There's gotta be a way.
Get up... Get up, Dai!
Dai [thought]:
S-Something isn't right.
Why... Why can't I...
Why can't I get up?
Oh, no... That look...
Popp: He knows! He must
know Vearn's right.
Then there's really
nothing he can do...
We came all this way just
for it to end like this?
After everything
we've been through?!
D-Damnit!
Damnit!
Don't weep.
You should be proud.
Each one of you fought
exceptionally well.
Now let us watch together...
as the Surface World
meets its end.
A new chapter in history.
Popp [thought]: It's over...
A-All of it...
All our friends
and families...
Every single person we know.
Warriors and world leaders...
And the innocent people
oblivious to the danger...
Everyone will disappear!
Soon, the whole
thing's gone forever.
Nothing will be left.
And we couldn't
do anything about it.
No matter how hard we tried
or how much we gave up...
In the end...
we still failed.
There's no stopping it now.
By unleashing the
final Pillar of Vearn,
I've activated the timers
installed in the other six.
The clock is ticking.
In less than ten minutes,
all the pillars will
explode at once...
In less than ten minutes,
your cursed Surface World
will be laid to waste!
I can't help feeling...
satisfied, already.
Narrator: With the last
Pillar of Vearn in place,
the countdown to the end of
the Surface World has begun...
and soon the six
Black Cores
stored within the pillars
let off an ominous glow.
Realizing Vearn's defeat
will be meaningless,
Dai loses his will
to even stand.
But then, a voice from Loroi
Valley enters Popp's mind,
revealing all was
not as it seemed.
See what unfolds,
next time on
Dragon Quest:
The Adventure of Dai,
"Like a Bright Flash".